RHDEVDOCS 5244 Tekton Results documentation (#63780)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-prepare-opc-for-results.adoc

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// *cicd/pipelines/using-tekton-results-for-openshift-pipelines-observability.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="prepare-opc-for-results_{context}"]
= Preparing the `opc` utility environment for querying {tekton-results}

[role="_abstract"]
Before you can query {tekton-results}, you must prepare the environment for the `opc` utility.

.Prerequisites

* You installed {tekton-results}.
* You installed the `opc` utility.

.Procedure

. Set the `RESULTS_API` environment variable to the route to the {tekton-results} API. Run the following command:
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ export RESULTS_API=$(oc get route  tekton-results-api-service  -n openshift-pipelines  --no-headers -o custom-columns=":spec.host"):443
----

. To authenticate with the {tekton-results} API, create an authentication token and save it to the `~/.config/tkn/results.yaml` file. Run the following command:
+
[source, terminal]
----

> $ create token <service-account> > ~/.config/tkn/results.yaml

Reviewer: `oc create token sa`

> $ create token <service-account> > ~/.config/tkn/results.yaml

Author: done, thanks

----
+
Replace `<service-account>` with the name of a service account that is authorized to use {pipelines-shortname}.
+

> Alternatively, if you do not create the `~/.config/tkn/results.yaml` file, you can pass the token to each `opc` command using the `--authtoken` option.

Author: @avinal is this file created automatically or does one have to create it manually? Also how does one provide a token in this file?

> Alternatively, if you do not create the `~/.config/tkn/results.yaml` file, you can pass the token to each `opc` command using the `--authtoken` option.

Reviewer 2: No, it is not created automatically, you must manually create it in the given path. You have included the command to create a token in the docs but is wrong, here is the right one.

```
oc create token <service-account>
```
then copy and paste the output.

If you have provided a service account in the file, a token is not needed. But if you do, it will be preferred. It can be useful when you want to query multiple results server.

> Alternatively, if you do not create the `~/.config/tkn/results.yaml` file, you can pass the token to each `opc` command using the `--authtoken` option.

Author: @avinal now I am confused. How is "redirect output to the file" differ from "copy and paste the output to the file"?

Or is this about the fact that I forgot `oc`? Fixing this now.

> Alternatively, if you do not create the `~/.config/tkn/results.yaml` file, you can pass the token to each `opc` command using the `--authtoken` option.

Reviewer 2: Here is the format
```yaml
 address: <address-of-the-result-apiserver>
token: <paste-the-created-token-here>
ssl:
  roots_file_path: <path-to-the-cert-file>
  server_name_override: tekton-results-api-service.tekton-pipelines.svc.cluster.local
service_account:
  namespace: <namespace-of-the-service-account>
  name: <name-of-the-service-account>
```

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// *cicd/pipelines/using-tekton-results-for-openshift-pipelines-observability.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="prepare-opc-for-results_{context}"]
= Preparing the `opc` utility environment for querying {tekton-results}

[role="_abstract"]
Before you can query {tekton-results}, you must prepare the environment for the `opc` utility.

.Prerequisites

* You installed {tekton-results}.
* You installed the `opc` utility.

.Procedure

. Set the `RESULTS_API` environment variable to the route to the {tekton-results} API. Run the following command:
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ export RESULTS_API=$(oc get route  tekton-results-api-service  -n openshift-pipelines  --no-headers -o custom-columns=":spec.host"):443
----

. To authenticate with the {tekton-results} API, create an authentication token. Run the following command:
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc create token sa <service-account>
----
+
Save the string that this command outputs.

. Optional: create the `~/.config/tkn/results.yaml` for automatic authentication with the {tekton-results} API. The file must have the following contents:
+
[source,yaml]
----

> address: tekton-results-api-service.openshift-pipelines.svc.cluster.local # <1>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
address: <tekton-results-route> # <1>
```
This is not correct. This address is the same as the `RESULTS_API`.

token: <authentication-token> # <2>
ssl:
   roots_file_path: /home/example/cert.pem # <3>

>    server_name_override: tekton-results-api-service.tekton-pipelines.svc.cluster.local # <1>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   server_name_override: tekton-results-api-service.<namespace-of-tekton-results>.svc.cluster.local # <5>
```
Server name override is a mechanism to set the host of the request to a known entity. For our use case, it is not going to change. And it is entirely different from the address of the apiserver.

 service_account:
   namespace: service_acc_1 <4>
   name: service_acc_1 <4>
----
<1> The full hostname of the {tekton-results} API endpoint.

> <2> The authentication token that was created by the `oc create token` command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<2> The authentication token that was created by the `oc create token` command. If this is provided, `service_account` is not needed and will be preffered over the service account.
```

<3> The location of the file with the SSL certificate that you configured for the API endpoint.

> <4> The name of the service account for which you created the token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<4> The name of the service account you want to authanticate with.
```

> +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <5> Default Server name override: `tekton-results-api-service.openshift-pipelines.svc.cluster.local`

```

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// *cicd/pipelines/using-tekton-results-for-openshift-pipelines-observability.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="prepare-opc-for-results_{context}"]
= Preparing the `opc` utility environment for querying {tekton-results}

[role="_abstract"]
Before you can query {tekton-results}, you must prepare the environment for the `opc` utility.

.Prerequisites

* You installed {tekton-results}.
* You installed the `opc` utility.

.Procedure

. Set the `RESULTS_API` environment variable to the route to the {tekton-results} API. Run the following command:
+
[source, terminal]
----

> $ export RESULTS_API=$(oc get route tekton-results-api-service -n openshift-pipelines --no-headers -o custom-columns=":spec.host"):443

Author: I really don't want to do any changing to multiple lines as this would require a QE recheck for certainty. I can't check these commands myself.

----

> . To authenticate with the {tekton-results} API, create an authentication token. Run the following command:

Author: Aha, I see where the problem witj "enter" came from - this place is actually the mistake!

> . To authenticate with the {tekton-results} API, create an authentication token. Run the following command:

Author: Your reword was somewhat ambiguous, hope mine works

+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc create token sa <service-account>
----
+
Save the string that this command outputs.

. Optional: create the `~/.config/tkn/results.yaml` for automatic authentication with the {tekton-results} API. The file must have the following contents:
+
[source,yaml]
----
address: <tekton-results-route> # <1>
token: <authentication-token> # <2>
ssl:
   roots_file_path: /home/example/cert.pem # <3>

>    server_name_override: tekton-results-api-service.openshift-pipelines.svc.cluster.local # <5>

Author: fixed

 service_account:
   namespace: service_acc_1 <4>

>    name: service_acc_1 <4>

Author: Example values.

+
[source, terminal]
----
$ export RESULTS_API=$(oc get route tekton-results-api-service \

>   -n openshift-pipelines --no-headers -o custom-columns=":spec.host"):443

Reviewer 3: this one doesn't work
